[STATIC]
[COMPUTER BEEPING]
[AMBIENT MUSIC]
[SUDDEN LOUD NOISE]
MARCO BISCHOF
(THROUGH INTERPRETER):
Apocalyptic prophecies,
conspiracy theories,
and uh, so forth.
All of them aim at stirring up
emotions, positive or negative.
INTERPRETER: It's a cycle.
The Mayan cycle.
The Mayan calendar we're
talking about doesn't end.
That's all a fear game.
It's the cycle that ends.
INTERPRETER: I see no
scientific imperative for
nor do I have a personal
conviction that would support
the prophecy angle,
although I have
the highest regard for the
work of the Mayan astronomers.
THOMAS GORNITZ
(THROUGH INTERPRETER):
This sort of necessary shift
in consciousness doesn't just
somehow come about on its own.
It happens because we
work to achieve it.
DIETER BROERS
(THROUGH INTERPRETER):
I am convinced that a change
will come about in 2012.
But the question
is when is 2012?
[DRAMATIC MUSIC]
-Don't panic yet.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
That's the date
that many doomsday
prophets are claiming the
world as we know it will end.
[ELECTRIC ZAPS]
MICHAEL KONIG
(THROUGH INTERPRETER):
I'm convinced that we're heading
towards a dramatic change
on this planet.
Everything we can
observe indicates this.
Climate change,
overpopulation, food shortages.
Everything is undergoing
an exponential development.
And we know that an
exponential function climbs
even higher until
the grade is so steep
that the system self-destructs.
RUPERT SHELDRAKE: The paradigm
shift that is already happening
first in physics-- biology
is lagging behind-- but it's
already happening.
It's a move towards a more
organic view of nature, a more
interconnected view of nature.
Where we see nature,
the whole universe,
the Earth, and living organisms
as organisms, not as machines.
ERNST SENKOWSKI
(THROUGH INTERPRETER):
We're abolishing
the word "explain."
Physicists have discovered
that nothing can be explained.
You can only describe something
within a certain framework.
Which leads you to
certain logical,
mathematical conclusions,
which are in turn interpreted.
And the battle is on.
GIULIANA CONFORTO: We are
developing our inner senses.
That is not [INAUDIBLE].
I don't know when.
Some people say 2012.
It might be.
FRANCINE BLAKE: My understanding
is that at that point
all possibilities will be open.
All possibilities.
To go down to hell forever or
to go up to heaven or whatever.
ILLOBRAND VON LUDWIGER
(THROUGH INTERPRETER):
When you know that science can't
come close to getting a handle
on the whole thing, then you
know why the press can't report
anything serious about it.
They only take an
interest in what
they know so that the
continuity of causality
won't be disruptive too much.
NARRATOR: 2012.
Almost no one is immune to
the magnetism of this date.
With all the crises and constant
outbreak of new conflicts,
sinister prophecies fan the
fires of apocalyptic angst.
While for others, the
promise of spiritual renewal
gives strength in
uncertain times.
What bothers me in both
scenarios, as a scientist,
is the mood of panic
and even hysteria
that often gets whipped up.
But I do find it remarkable that
in many ancient civilizations
this particular year
is believed to mark
a special turning point.
The Maya even refer
to it as the final,
all-encompassing transition.
And that is clearly already
well underway, isn't it?
We've long since
realized that all
the current global
challenges can only
be mastered if we break
through established
structures and habitual
ways of thinking
and develop a new awareness.
Furthermore, natural
scientists are now
observing that
cosmic influences are
having an increasing
effect on material,
environment, and ourselves.
Which in turn is a
measurable Influence
on our feelings and perception.
INTERPRETER: We're already in
a different state of awareness
now, wide awake, than we
just woke up only three,
four, five, six hours ago.
It's a different state of being.
Which is then expanded
to become a higher
level of consciousness, a level
that allows us to perceive
everything differently.
Including the things we've
already lived through.
The interaction between
you and me changes.
The physical separation
ceases to exist.
The idea that you're
over there and I am here
and you're something different.
It is the ability to perceive
the holistic nature of things.
I see that as an outcome
of this transformation.
NARRATOR: I myself have spent
many years focusing on how
to scientifically describe
how our bio-organism reacts
to terrestrial and
cosmic influences.
Electromagnetic
fields, for example.
The real sensation is that it
appears these research data
could take on an unprecedented
significance for humanity
in the period right
around 2012, of all times.
But that's just one
side of the coin.
Because if our perception
changes as dramatically as I
suspect is possible, our entire
world view will inevitably
be derailed as a result.
That's why we should
approach everything
that happens from here on
in with the consciousness
of a child.
Open and unbiased.
That will enable us to
open up a world in which
mathematicians become
philosophers and science
merges with religion.
And this way, we can begin now
to overcome the limitations
of our consciousness and
to breach the boundaries
of space and time.
To understand why our perception
and awareness could soon
undergo such a dramatic
change, we must first explore
a few fundamental questions.
Namely, what exactly
is consciousness?
Where is this inexplicable
part of our existence located,
and what role does our
brain play in this context?
RUPERT SHELDRAKE: And this
is one of the most unexplored
areas in all of science.
It's now one of
the most exciting
areas, consciousness studies,
is a frontier area of science.
Largely because consciousness
itself has been so ignored
by scientists for so long.
Now, at last, people
are looking at this
and realizing we
know almost nothing
about the nature
of our own minds
and how they relate
to our brains.
I'm interested in what I call
the mysteries of everyday life.
Things that happen to lots
of people but which science
can't explain.
One of them is telepathic
telephone calls.
You think of someone
and then they ring.
And then you say, that's funny,
I was just thinking about you.
More than 80 percent of people
have had that experience
in Europe and America.
So, it's very common.
Another area is the
feeling of being stared at.
You turn around,
somebody's looking at you.
Or you stare at someone,
they turn around.
Well, I've had these
experiences myself.
And again, most people have
the sense of being stared at.
About 90 percent of people have
had that experience, in a way
that seems to be telepathic.
So, I've done experiments
to find out whether it
really is telepathic.
And yes indeed, or at least
in some cases it seems to be.
The conventional view of the
materialist theory of the mind,
which is still the dominant
theory within academic science,
says that the mind is the brain.
Mental activity
is brain activity.
All your thoughts, intentions,
and so on are inside your head.
What I'm suggesting is they're
not all inside your head.
They extend beyond your
head through fields,
which I call morphic fields.
MICHAEL PERSINGER: The
interesting thing-- and we've
known it for years, but
somehow it eluded us-- that
for about 20 minutes during the
acquisition of new information,
that it's two stages.
It's electrical,
electromagnetic,
and its physical, chemical.
Its energy and matter.
And during that
15 to 20 minutes,
that pattern that
we call experience
is transformed into connections
on dendrites' spines
that connect.
And in a lifetime,
with all of the energy
associated for your
thinking, that's
just a few joules of energy.
That's the thinking.
And the Earth's magnetic
field has the capacity
to store 10 to the 18th joules.
Which means that the thought of
every person who has ever lived
could be there, represented.
So, all this idea says
is that information-- not
you, not your sense of self.
That's a brain phenomenon.
But the information is
stored extracerebrally.
ERNST SENKOWSKI
(THROUGH INTERPRETER):
In quantum theory, we talk about
statistics and probabilities
and basically about noise.
We have a constant background
noise that is simply there.
What we do with our
brain is to pull
information out of this noise.
In that sense,
anything at all can
be found in the noise field.
So, from out of other space-time
or non-space-time areas,
these information fields
control, [INAUDIBLE],
the activity here on Earth,
with the help of processes
that occur in our brains.
NARRATOR: Our brain.
A package of wonders that we
haven't even unpacked yet.
It's unfathomable, but the
number of possible connections
in the brain is greater than
the number of all the atoms
in the entire universe.
We know the various
messenger substances, known
as neurotransmitters, are
responsible for the exchange
of information
between nerve cells.
Minute electrical impulses
prompt the nerve cell
to discharge these
neurotransmitters, which
are made up of different
specific molecules
according to their
particular function.
It is these molecules that keep
our feelings, and our lives,
in rhythm.
They control the sleeping and
waking phases of the body,
and trigger euphoria
and depression.
So far, so good.
But this purely
biochemical analysis
doesn't explain why our
feeling of self identity
develops with the
accompanying experiences
and intuitive events.
This is where biology
reaches its limits.
And consciousness research
becomes the subject
of a discipline that has
historically focused more
than any other unmeasurable
characteristics
and immutable laws-- physics.
INTERPRETER: [INAUDIBLE] model
of electrons, which postulates
that they can store
memory information
in the form of light patterns,
is an obvious thread to follow.
The idea is that the
electrons that have organized
a specific biological
organism can control
all the biochemical, biophysical
processes during its lifetime
by means of the electromagnetic
fields that they generate.
That these electrons, or
at least a certain hardcore
portion of them,
are the substance
of what we call the human soul.
[ELECTRICITY ZAPS]
NARRATOR: The latest findings
on quantum physical phenomena
could also be the
key to understanding
the processes in our synapses.
To put it another way,
thoughts and experiences
are processed in
the region where
the laws of space and
time no longer apply
or work completely differently.
According to this
theory, the brain
could be the link to a higher,
other-worldly dimension.
[KEYPAD BEEPS]
RUPERT SHELDRAKE: A good
analogy would be something
like a cell phone handy.
In the mobile telephone,
there's an electromagnetic field
inside the phone.
But the field of the phone
extends beyond the surface
of the phone.
It extends over
hundreds of meters.
And because of that, the phone
can have effects at a distance,
and it can pick up
inferences from far
away through invisible fields.
And I think our minds
are like invisible fields
that extend beyond our brains.
They're not just confined
to the inside of the head.
If you have a dog and
you intend to go home,
the dog can pick up that
intention even before you get
in the car to set off for home.
And we've done
lots of experiments
where we film the
dog, we have people
come home at random times.
We have them come
home in taxis to rule
out familiar car sounds.
All these things showed
attention and intention
can work at a distance.
They're not confined to
the inside of the head.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[DOG WHINES]
Quantum physics has
shown us that things
are much more interconnected
than we previously imagined.
I think this more
holistic approach
is the way science is going
and is bound to continue to go.
GOTTFRIED VOLLMER
(THROUGH INTERPRETER):
All schools of
philosophy like to use
the ocean as a metaphor for the
structure of our consciousness.
On the surface we have the wave.
The wave can most
certainly experience
itself as an individual, yes.
Yet, when we look at
waves we would never
accept the idea that they
are isolated entities.
Rather we see them as
fluctuations of a larger
whole, namely the ocean.
ERNST SENKOWSKI
(THROUGH INTERPRETER):
The limitations lie in our
brain and in the programming
we've had drummed into us
from our earliest years.
This system carries an
immense inertia factor
because we keep reproducing it.
We continue to educate new
generations of children
into this system.
And the attempts that
we do make to expand
the boundaries of the system
suffer from the following.
It's very difficult for me
to move from a limited system
into a broader or a wider one.
It's much easier the
other way around.
When I imagine a big funnel
with the extended system up
at the top, then I'm
sitting down at the thin end
with my limited brain capacity
and my limited abilities.
And when they throw a big
bundle of hay into the opening
up there, only a single
straw comes out at my end.
That's the state
of our limitations,
and we'll have to live with
it and fight it for some time
to come.
ELIZABETH RAUSCHER:
Eugene Wigner
stated that you need to
consider consciousness
in understanding physics.
Sir Arthur Eddington
said that physics
is the study of consciousness.
And as I grew up in the
woods, in the country
in northern California, I
felt that experience of being
in tune with all nature.
Connected with all existence.
A harmony and peace.
And I think if we realized
the power of the influence
of our individual thoughts
and our responsibility,
one of the outcomes
I see is making
the world a better place.
NARRATOR: The sweeping
transformation of consciousness
in 2012 must be accompanied by
changes within our brain, which
would enable us to receive
previously inaccessible stimuli
and coronations.
But what could possibly have
such an effect on our brain?
[CAMERA FLASH SOUNDS]
Long before I posed this
question in connection
with the events
of the year 2012,
I had witnessed several
clinical experiments in which we
studied the effects of
electromagnetic fields
on the human brain.
Test subjects were exposed
to such fields, which had
been created for the purpose.
And our tests showed
that their brain
waves were in fact influenced
by the external waves.
This is significant because
the brain itself works
in different frequencies
during different phases
of consciousness.
In other words, the
sleeping and waking phases.
Current studies confirm that
relative to the strength
of the field and
frequency level,
not only the mood of test
persons can be influenced,
but their perception, learning
ability, and memory as well.
Clearly, electromagnetic fields
have a decisive influence
on our brain function and can
rapidly evoke various states
of consciousness.
MICHAEL PERSINGER: I think one
of the most important features
to remember about our species,
our seven billion brains that
make up the human
being as a population,
is that we're all immersed
within the Earth's
magnetic field.
And even a simple calculation
of magnetic diffusivity, which
means the ability to
diffuse information,
under the appropriate
conditions,
all brains could be connected
within four or five minutes.
Think of every brain
as a copper wire
and there are seven
billion of them.
What happens if
you had a handful
of these seven billion
wires and you put
a magnetic field through it?
You would get a mutual current
induced in all of them.
And that current--
that magnetic field--
would reflect the
characteristics
of all those wires.
And the point is you
could apply something
from the external
field and influence
every one of those wires.
The Earth vibrates, it
resonates electromagnetically
in the same ranges
as the human brain.
And through the right resonance,
you could influence all brains.
And since information,
your experiences of images
and thoughts and memories are
resonance in magnetic fields
within the brain, the capability
is there to influence not only
thought but also memory itself.
NARRATOR: So, the cause of a
revolutionary transformation
in our perception
could indeed be a
colossal electromagnetic field.
When astronauts returned from
the first manned space flight
experiencing serious
health problems,
the term "space
sickness" was coined.
The cause soon became clear.
In their space
capsule, the astronauts
had been cut off from the
Earth's magnetic field.
This fact shows with
stunning clarity
that our Earth's
magnetic field does
a lot more than just protect
us from cosmic radiation.
Our entire
bio-organism literally
harmonizes with this field.
It regulates the cycles
of life and our body clock
and could even be
the engine for many
of the metabolic processes.
Not to mention its significance
for the directional sense
in both humans and animals.
ROLLING MCCRATY: The
geomagnetic field
is a stable or a
stationary field,
kind of like a
refrigerator magnet.
Right?
If you take a magnet,
that field's always there.
So, the strength
of the field isn't
really changing much, at least
not in terms of our day-to-day.
But what does change
daily-- affects
us-- is those field lines.
If you think of the
Earth here and you've
got these magnetic field
lines going thousands of miles
out into space all
around the planet,
is they interact
with the solar wind.
They vibrate.
OK?
So the solar wind
plucks the field lines,
very much like a guitar string.
The Schumann resonances
are determined
by the resonate cavity between
the surface of the earth
and basically the bottom
of the ionosphere.
So when the magnetic waves get
established in this cavity,
those that are resonant
with the resonant frequency
of the cavity become globally
propagating standing waves.
And there are eight primary
Schumann resonances.
The first one is 7.8
Hertz, and that's
very close to what's
called the alpha rhythm
in our brain waves.
It turns out all eight of these
primary Schumann resonances
have overlaps with
human brain waves.
NARRATOR: Of course we cannot
perceive the geomagnetic field
directly with our five senses.
Yet, we do have the
antennas for it.
We have at our
disposal more than 5
million magnetite crystals
per gram of brain mass.
They react extremely sensitively
to all the magnetic fields
in our environment and very
significantly to sudden change.
When there are magnetic
storms, these magnetic storms
can play havoc with satellites.
Communication
satellites, for instance.
This has been the reason why
there have been some blackouts.
Now if you look at what is the
physiology of an individual,
well, the heart is a very
big electrical circuit.
It's a big pump.
The brain also has
electrical activity.
So there is no reason to
believe that they will act any
differently from the
grid of the satellites
when they're hit by
a magnetic storm.
NARRATOR: Statistical
evaluations are in fact
making it clear that disruptions
in the geomagnetic field
are reflected in just
about all areas of life.
Birth rate, industrial
accidents, death statistics,
traffic accidents.
The numbers are always
way above average on days
when extreme geomagnetic
activity is recorded.
A study commissioned by
the US Federal Reserve
concluded that even trade on the
international stock exchanges
is influenced directly
by the activity
of the geomagnetic field.
It now appears certain
the geomagnetic field
seems to have a decisive
effect on our psyche
and our biorhythms.
What does that mean in relation
to the year 2012 and beyond?
For the biophysical and
chemical processes in our brain
to change in the way
that we have observed
in our experiments
with artificial fields,
very dramatic geomagnetic
turbulence would
have to occur around this time.
Is a calculable,
perhaps cyclical event
actually due to
take place that will
have an effect on our planet?
We know now that in the
history of the Earth
there have been regular
incidences of extreme changes
to the magnetic field.
These things appear to be
due to regular cosmic cycles,
comparable to the four seasons.
At this point in the discussion,
the Mayan calendar must
inevitably enter the equation.
According to their
calculations, our year 2012
is so special precisely because
this is when various cycles
end and also begin.
It's comparable to a clock face.
Once every 12 hours
all three hands
point to 12 for the short
duration of one second.
So let's take a closer look at
the cosmic cycles known today.
We are made aware of
them most consciously
by the alternation
of day and night,
caused by the rotation of
the Earth on its own axis.
Indisputably, the most
self evident of all cycles.
Just as obvious is
the unit of the month.
Our moon orbits the earth
once in exactly 28 days.
We can clearly observe this
in the various moon phases.
Our Earth takes 365 days for
its journey around the sun.
In other words, one year.
The sequence of four seasons
arises over the course
of the one cycle due
to the slight tilt
of our Earth on its axis.
The hemisphere tilted
towards the sun
is somewhat warmer because the
sun's rays hit it a sharper
angle and also because
the days are significantly
longer there than the nights.
In this hemisphere, it's summer.
But our Earth's
axis doesn't always
tilt in the same direction.
A cycle that can only be
observed over millennia
is the procession
of the equinoxes,
also known as a platonic year.
Our Earth wobbles like
a slow-spinning top,
and it takes around 26,000 years
until the Earth's axis tilts
in the same direction again.
All of these processes,
which we can confirm
with ultra-modern
instruments at best,
were already well
known to the Maya
and formed the basis of
their cyclical calendar.
Thanks to this
knowledge, they were
able to give each
day for centuries
ahead its own individual name.
That's very important when
you assume, as did the Maya,
that each day comes with its
own particular quality due to
the exact cosmic constellation.
But returning to the
subject of cosmic cycles.
Our entire planetary
system orbits
around the center of our galaxy
over an unimaginably long
period of time.
At the same time,
it also oscillates
around the galactic equator.
In this case too,
the length of time
it takes for our
planetary system
to complete one cycle
of rising and sinking
is virtually unfathomable
in human terms.
According to the
Mayan calendar--
the perfect depiction
of cosmic cycles--
many such significant cycles are
expected to begin to dovetail
dramatically in the year 2012.
Resulting in a
constellation so unusual
that it will lead
to global changes
and the much-discussed
higher vibrational level.
However, there's
almost nothing we
can deduce with certainty from
the cycles known to us today.
[FLASH]
Even though some
current measurements
do seem to support such
prophecies-- increases
in cosmic radiation over
many years, for example--
the time frame and
distance in question
are still far too vast to
enable us to pin these events
down to a certain year,
let alone an exact day.
And it's completely unnecessary
for us to rely on speculation
because what is presumably
the most significant source
of geomagnetic disturbances,
in the cosmic sense as well,
is glaringly obvious.
It is a tiny cog in the
wheel of cosmic cycles,
yet powerful enough to cause
devastating economic and
material damage on our planet.
And the little cog is our sun.
[DRAMATIC MUSIC SWELLS]
And liftoff of
SOHO and the Atlas
vehicle on an international
mission of solar physics.
SKIP MACKEY (ON
RADIO COMMUNICATION):
[INAUDIBLE] program is in.
Vehicle responses look
good at this time.
We're listening
now to Skip Mackey
in Central Telemetry here
at the mission director's--
SKIP MACKEY (ON
RADIO COMMUNICATION):
All engines look g--
NARRATOR: In December
1995, NASA and ESA launched
the SOHO satellite into space.
SOHO, which stands for solar
and heliospheric observatory,
has since then sent us a steady
stream of measurement data
from the sun.
In 2006, a new era of
solar observation quality
was ushered in with the dual
satellites called STEREO.
These two satellites observe
the sun simultaneously
from different angles.
Like a giant pair of human
eyes, the STEREO mission
gives us an unprecedented
spatial view
of our central celestial body.
The research focuses on the
observation of explosions
on the sun's surface.
These solar flares, or
eruptions, catapult high energy
charge carriers into space
at speeds of several million
kilometers per hour.
A coronal mass ejection
is the violent expulsion
of part of the solar
atmosphere that contains
both magnetic field and plasma.
NARRATOR: Our Earth's
magnetic field protects us
from these particles,
diverting them
into a detour around the globe.
This causes an
effect which we can
observe at both of
the Earth's poles,
known as the Northern Lights.
But behind what we experience
as a spectacular show of nature
lurks an unpleasant shadow.
ANGELOS VOURLIDAS:
They can really disrupt
satellite communications.
They can affect GPS
signals, our cellphones.
They can even induce
a lot of currents
in the northern
latitudes and even
cause electricity disruptions.
NARRATOR: The
probability of what's
called a solar
superstorm is especially
high in the next few years.
NASA's solar researchers
have classified
the maximum solar activity
expected during this time
period as so
dangerous that in 2009
they began to issue
official warnings
about its possible effects.
Just stirring up panic?
Statistics show a clear
parallel at all times
between population rates on
earth and sunspot activity.
Further indication of
the strong corollary
between the reactions
of our climate
and all biological life
on Earth to solar cycle.
There is a bulk of
supporting evidence making
the whole story consistent.
And that is very important
because every cycle
that we map, every effect that
you find that may be associated
with solar activity or
other cycles that exist
in our environment,
they're always
substantiated on the basis
of statistical analysis.
What that means is that
there is a direct relationship
between the mood measure,
the self-rated mood,
and cosmological variables,
both the solar wind
speed and the antipodal
geomagnetic disturbance index.
NARRATOR: And another thing,
on the morning of September
the 1st, 1859, British
astronomer and sun researcher
Richard Carrington
happened by coincidence
to observe a blazing explosion
on the surface of the sun.
He knew at once that he had
witnessed a very special event.
In the nights that followed,
brilliant Northern Lights
could be seen all
over the globe,
as far from the poles
as Hawaii and Jamaica.
This particularly
severe magnetic storm
disabled the telegraph
network worldwide
and caused the paper in
the teletype machines
to burst into flames.
That was 1859.
[FLASH]
For our modern, high-tech
world, a solar superstorm would
doubtless deal a heavy blow.
Power outages, the resulting
disruption of supply chains,
governments the world
over are preparing more
or less for such a scenario.
But the possible effects
on our bio-organism
have largely been
ignored thus far.
Should we take the
ancient prophecies
of a quantum leap
in consciousness
seriously after all?
And not so much in terms of
mystic or spiritual parameters,
but quite pragmatically,
from a biochemical,
biophysical standpoint.
This is underscored
by a simple example.
Imagine that
someone were to give
you without your knowledge of
consciousness-expanding drug.
But as soon as the
substance takes effect,
you would begin to believe
you were losing your mind
because you would start
to feel and perceive
things that are not part
of reality as you know it.
If, on the other hand,
you were to take the drug
on purpose, fully
aware of its effect,
it would not take
you by surprise.
You would be prepared
for it and able to make
sense of the effect.
One step at a time.
Our brain is the interface
to our consciousness,
is also a high
performance filter.
The sensory organs deliver
around a million times more
information to the brain than it
passes on to our consciousness.
[ELECTRIC ZAPS]
Our brain decides how relevant
a particular sensory impression
is for our survival.
According to this prioritizing,
we are then either
able to perceive it or not.
Tranquilizers allow only the
strongest stimuli to reach
our consciousness perception.
Some psychoactive substances
have just the opposite effect.
Cannabis, for example,
disrupts the ability
of the visual system to
block out superfluous views
of the surroundings.
But hallucinations, such
as those induced by hashish
consumption, are not delusions.
Rather they are hyperrealistic,
uncensored images
one after the other.
Just as our brain constantly
registers them, but without
forwarding them on
to our consciousness.
LSD is another drug known for
its consciousness-expanding
effects.
Under the influence
of LSD, the ability
to perceive time and space is
lost within just a few seconds.
MICHAEL PERSINGER:
Structure dictates function.
All experiences come
from brain function.
And those experiences are due
to the structure of the brain
and the electrical patterns
associated with it.
You could imitate it by giving a
psychotropic drug, for example.
Or you can imitate it
by exposing the brain
to the appropriate
intensity temporally
patterned magnetic field.
For every molecular
pattern, called chemicals,
there is an electromagnetic
sequence or temporal pattern
that must be matched.
And when you apply
that to the brain,
you should get
comparable experiences.
And that's what we have found.
NARRATOR: The human brain
produces a neurotransmitter,
a molecule very similar to LSD.
It's called
Dimethyltryptamine, or DMT.
But it seems that even
the tiniest amount
of these molecules can
trigger hallucinations
in sensitive individuals.
Various experiments
have also shown
that exposure to certain
electromagnetic fields
and frequencies can
stimulate the brain
to release DMT molecules.
Such fields have the same
strength and frequencies
as what we might be
exposed to during
severe geomagnetic storms.
Is it not plausible that
our brain is already
equipped with all
the prerequisites
for an expanded consciousness?
And that this, let's
call it function,
need only be activated by the
release of certain messenger
substances, such as DMT?
Molecules that weaken the
limitations in our perception
or even dissolve
them altogether.
INTERPRETER: It is as though
we will be shown things the way
they really are
for the first time.
To use a metaphor, our
blinders will be removed.
NARRATOR: This is how
we think of outer space.
Innumerable spots of light in a
sea of endless black emptiness.
But we have known for some time
now that this infinite vastness
isn't so empty after all.
It must contain something that
we can neither see nor measure
because the familiar
visible material
phenomena alone cannot
explain the movements
of the stars and galaxies.
And this dark matter
must be omnipresent.
It's particles permeate
our planet and us
without leaving a single trace.
We still have only vague
suspicions about the nature
of this phenomenon.
There are a multitude of things
that we now know must exist,
although they lie beyond the
realm of direct measurement
and observation.
The fact of the matter is that
our mental functioning can now
be demonstrated
in a new language,
the language of frequencies.
To be dependent upon
unseen effects [INAUDIBLE].
Gravitation, magnetism,
many things we cannot see.
GIULIANA CONFORTO: According
to astrophysics, dark matter
and dark energy, that are both
invisible, assume almost 95%
of the entire mass.
So what is visible
is just 4%, 5%.
The 4%, 5% are
what we call atoms.
So, very few.
We don't see anything at all.
We call it dark matter
because we can see it.
But it reveals itself through
its gravitational interactions
with ordinary
matter, which is what
we can observe with telescopes.
When one piece of dark
matter meets another piece
of dark matter, they may
annihilate each other
and produced gamma rays.
And so, what we're
going to look for are
the gamma rays from that
dark matter annihilation.
If you look at me in
x-ray, I'm not like this,
I'm in a skeleton.
If you look at me in infrared
rays, I like a cloud.
So, this ability strictly
depends on the wavelength,
on the frequency
we are observing.
When you look up
in the optical sky,
it looks very quiescent and
stable and nothing changing
with time.
When you look at
the gamma ray sky,
you realize that there
are violent phenomena
in the universe that
evolve very quickly.
Gamma ray bursts
being an example.
Something that for a brief
instant of time, you know,
about a second, outshines the
entire rest of the universe.
NARRATOR: Do we really see
the world as it truly is?
Those familiar with the Mayan
material will at this point
be reminded of the
galactic synchronization
ray, which it is thought will
raise our vibration level
around 2012.
The very fact is
that we are blind.
In my view, what is going to
call that our blindness [FSSH]
collapse.
Obviously, this is a radical
change I already think.
But it regards our perception.
It doesn't regard the
distraction of the word.
Our mind, that is only linked
to the electromagnetic field.
And scientists do prove this.
We'll collapse, but
we will not die.
Because we are not our minds.
We are much more.
So, we will not
see with our eyes,
but we will see or
feel with our bodies.
Because we have inner senses.
And this is what is going on.
We are developing
our inner senses.
We are being prepared to accept
the fact that evolution doesn't
stop with our genetic code.
That we are in a unique position
to update and to prepare
ourselves really
for work in what we
will call a fifth
and sixth dimensional
area of genetics theory.
NARRATOR: But how would we react
if we were suddenly flooded
with millions of new stimuli?
If perceptions were to
penetrate our consciousness
that we are unable to
classify because we've
never experienced them?
[GARBLED LANGUAGE]
[SUDDEN SYNTH SOUND]
INTERPRETER: Look,
how could someone,
let's say, 300 or 400 years
ago here in Western Europe
possibly imagine the
room we are sitting
in now with all its equipment?
It's just absurd.
It's not possible.
There have been
one or two people,
big names, who have had
precognitive visions
of inventions, yes.
But an exact image of us
sitting here receiving pictures
from America, the film material
is being shot that will then
be available in some
modified form or other
to hundreds of thousands
or millions of people.
That's unimaginable.
I think that's the same
position we're in now.
I think that there are
so many possibilities,
I think that sometimes
the limits are
the limits of our imagination.
Lord Kelvin suggested
that in 1899 no one
go into physics because
it was discovering
one more decimal place.
In the first case, I
don't think Billy Gates
and a lot of people, like
Tesla and Edison ands others,
noticed that everything
had been invented.
Man, were they wrong.
747's and everything.
ILLOBRAND VON LUDWIGER
(THROUGH INTERPRETER):
The whole focus
of scientific work
is to communicate certainties.
Not truths, certainties.
People feel safe
within certainties.
FRANCINE BLAKE: I was
always struck by the Romans
at the end of the Empire when
they said, if the Vandals come
and destroy-- and
attack us, it will
be the end of civilization.
Well, I mean, you
look the back now
and you say, what kind
of horrible civilization
did they have really?
Thank God the Vandals
came and wiped them out.
Otherwise, who would want
to be stuck in that mindset?
Yeah?
It was horrible.
It's the same now.
We're so, oh, my God,
if something happens
we'll lose our civ-- what
civilization have we got
now to crow about, you know?
NARRATOR: Without a doubt, our
economic and social systems
are coming apart at the seams.
We debate daily about
environmental protection
and the necessity of doing
away with hunger and poverty
in the world.
But we're going
in circles trying
to protect the
environment using up
more resources in the process.
Helping the poor and hindering
them at the same time
from escaping poverty
on their own initiative.
All the while, our
instinct tells us
that nothing can change as
long as our worldview stays
the same.
So we need evermore
new solutions
for problems that were
the result of solutions
to other problems
in the first place.
We've never really
learned to let
go and recognize the causes.
All our belief systems
were very, very restrictive.
All of them.
The church had the power of
life and death and so on.
Science was supposed
to be our saving grace
and is becoming very dogmatic
as well now in a similar way.
And the application of science
is seriously dangerous.
So, we've got all this
to come out of, you know?
And people think
this is all there is,
and they're used to
being constricted.
Physicists talk about a
final theory of everything.
Whenever you think
you know everything,
you're in for a rude awakening.
And I think that the glory of
it all is that we don't know
everything, and it's wonderful.
Because in our discoveries
we have the possibility
of not only creating a
more Utopian society,
but getting in touch
with how we can
have peace, love,
and joy instead
of war, crime, and violence.
And it's going to be very
difficult for a lot of people
to just suddenly let
go of that and be
free and be able to function
in a different reality.
They won't want to, probably.
Most of them, a lot
of them won't want to.
The major impedance
of this is science.
Science has become very
narrow, very restricted.
And the fact that there could
be new phenomena, phenomena
that we haven't imagined,
is a very difficult thing
for many contemporary
scientists to understand
or appreciate or even accept.
It's just a matter of
time because the younger
generations are more
open than the older ones.
As Max Planck said, for such
paradigm shifts to occur,
you have to wait until old
ones die out for the young ones
to do things differently.
FRANZ HALBERG: Dealing
with the cosmos
and ourselves means
dealing with our problems.
So, when we discuss cancer or
high blood pressure or strokes,
we are discussing the
cosmos as much as we
discuss medicine or health.
It is the best way to discuss
the effect of the cosmos.
It is the only way I know
of that can change us
from the [INAUDIBLE]
prevailing today
at the government agencies, who
are worried about blackouts,
who are worried about
electronic engineering
and forget about the
effect upon ourselves.
Biologists don't
meet physicists,
and physicists don't
meet biologists.
Don't meet physician, and so on.
Sheldrake rightly speaks
about a live field,
and he calls it
morphogenetic field.
It's right, but I say
that the same field
that he calls
morphogenetic is what
physicists call electroweak.
FRANCINE BLAKE: Belief
is very limiting.
It limits you because
you begin to think
that what you believe in is
the only thing that can exist.
And that's not true.
So, belief is limiting.
Beyond belief is liberating.
But it's very
difficult to achieve
because we need security.
We need, like you
say, nuts and bolts.
We need to flesh it out.
We need to see something solid.
Beyond belief you are
actually in a position
where every possibility is open.
NARRATOR: How open are
we really for something
we don't believe in?
Yes, there are
several good examples
of events that we
simply ignore because
of our ingrained convictions.
Although we can perceive
them with all the senses
available to us today, even
measure and photograph them,
we refuse to admit that
they have any relevance
for our modern, clued-in life.
ILLOBRAND VON LUDWIGER
(THROUGH INTERPRETER):
It's the same with
consciousness research.
We suspect that it's
beyond our capacity,
so we won't even touch it.
You'll just earn yourself a
bad name among colleagues.
[BIRDS CALLING]
NARRATOR: After many
discussions such as these,
I came to the conclusion that
what we now call paranormal
is probably just the
tip of an iceberg.
Excerpts and messengers from
a world that we can't yet
perceive or understand
in the slightest.
One faction of
physicists is still busy
trying to bring the many
surprising and unexplained
characteristics of
elementary particles
into harmony with established
laws and standard models.
But some of their
colleagues have long since
left these limitations behind.
And in the process discovered
a world in which mathematics
and natural sciences
can indeed describe much
that has previously been
the exclusive prerogative
of religion and philosophy.
The only bitter pill, these
theories are so far away
from everything we've learned
thus far that now-- well,
before we attempt
this little excursion
into the world of
new physics, you
should try to free your
consciousness completely,
at least temporarily,
from everything
you've learned up until today.
[AUDIO SKIPS]
[COMPUTER BEEPS]
At the end of the
last century, someone
discovered a way of getting a
scientific grasp on eternity.
Physicist Burkhard
Heim developed a theory
that made it possible
to observe the world
holistically with
all its material
and non-material processes.
Postulating a
12-dimensional worldview,
he succeeded not
just philosophically,
but in a mathematically
calculable model
in uniting the two
aspects of life
that have been dogmatically
separated for centuries.
Matter and spirit.
But how can we imagine
a 12-dimensional world?
Let's say that our
life as we know it
all takes place in a computer.
We are all characters
in a virtual
three-dimensional reality.
A computer game, for example.
Everything around us--
colors, forms, objects--
is three dimensional.
All sequences and variations are
programed in a single time ray.
As long as we don't
interrupt the game,
time passes in
the linear fashion
we're familiar with
from our reality.
Einstein called this
virtual environment
with four dimensions, including
time, the space-time continuum.
It is the world of our
conscious experience.
Burkhard Heim combined these
dimensions in one space,
or Raum in German, called R4.
Remember, we're still talking
about a computer here.
So for anything
at all to happen,
we first need an operating
system, the prerequisite
for running any program.
In Heim's model, the equivalent
of the operating system
would be what he calls
structured space.
x5 and x6 is what he
calls the two dimensions
that comprise structured space.
Here, space and time already
cease to play a role.
Now everyone would agree that
without an operating system
the computer would be worthless.
We wouldn't be able
to play our game.
In other words, to
live our virtual world.
For that, the computer needs
additional data, a program
itself, as well as
numerous files in which
the visual appearance and
the laws of our virtual world
are preassigned and configured.
All this information
can be accessed
at anytime in the operating
system's root directories.
In Heim's model, these are the
information spaces, comprised
of the dimensions x7 and x8.
And finally, the itself has
to be located somewhere, too.
It accounts for
dimensions x9 to x12.
In our model, this space
has designation g4.
It is the realm of the
creator, the omnipresent higher
consciousness, the
source of mystery,
and the fundamental essence
behind man's search for meaning
and purpose in this world.
Take evolution.
It too is a theory
that cannot be proven.
But we have basically
internalized it as a fact.
I try to imagine how different
our modern, rational world
would be if the theory of
a certain Burkhard Heim
were just as embedded in
our collective certainty.
One thing that is
certain, cosmic evolution
tends to take full advantage
of the ever-changing balance
between chaos and order.
Nature and its goal to create
ever more complex life forms
has already led us to the
edge of extinction five times.
On its journey
through the galaxy,
our solar system
routinely passes
through areas known
for their particularly
intense cosmic activity.
This activity
influences our climate
and plays a significant role
in the developmental process
of all affected life forms.
So let's take a closer look at
this life-changing phenomenon.
The state of the art in
earthquake prediction
recently identified
gravitational waves and gamma
rays emerging from our sun and
from the center of our galaxy.
Which appear to have a
direct correlation to
recent global seismic activity.
Evidence traces their origin to
a region known as Sagittarius
A. And the latest radio
astronomy findings
reveal at its center a
supermassive black hole
with a mass equal to
4 million of our suns.
But the cause of our
current cosmic extremes
appears to be a gigantic plasma
cloud moving in the direction
of Sagittarius A.
Since 2004 this plasma
cloud has almost
doubled its speed of approach.
The gravitational
pull of the black hole
has also increased and
begun to elongate its shape.
Astrophysicists speak
of a vacuum process,
which according to
some calculations,
will continue until mid 2013.
After which, it will
have reached its maximum.
Eventually the ever-increasing
gravitational force
of the black hole will
consume the plasma cloud.
And in that moment, just
before the final remnants
are pulled in, they reach such
extremely high temperatures
that astrophysicists expect an
eruption at Sagittarius A that
will send a massive
wave of cosmic rays
surging in our direction.
Along with
gravitational waves, we
can expect highly charged
x-rays, gamma rays, and radio
waves to collide with
Earth, causing potentially
unforetold energetic effects.
Radio waves in
particular have an effect
upon biological systems that
is often underestimated.
Our human DNA has a resonance
frequency of 150 megahertz.
In this frequency range,
even the slightest
field strengths are enough to
produce biophysical affects.
They can cause mood changes,
and they trigger altered states
of consciousness.
Reference measurements have
shown that the 150 megahertz
high-frequency
wave in particular
activates production of our
own internal psychoactive
substances.
One gland in the brain in
particular, the pineal gland,
is one of the most powerful
producers of such substances
in the human body.
The pineal gland is
also hypersensitive
when it comes to
external magnetic fields
and radio waves.
It could, for example, act
as an excellent transmitter
and receiver of cosmic signals.
In 1972, Nobel Prize
winner Julius Axelrod
discovered that the human
pineal gland naturally
produces one particularly
potent psychoactive substance,
originally called telepathine
due to its enhancement
of psychic abilities.
Dimethyltryptamine, or DMT.
Some refer to as
the spirit molecule.
One of the interesting
things about DMT
is it's actively
transported into the brain
across the blood-brain barrier.
It's as if the brain requires
DMT for normal function.
Which is a strange idea.
DMT seems like a building
block for our perception
of everyday reality.
That's everyday reality.
That just isn't some future,
like, apocalyptic time.
It's almost as if we're
all kind of living
in an apocalyptic time right
now because it's being mediated
by some chemical
substance, which kind
of is holding things together.
If you think about consciousness
as occurring within the brain,
and if you think about the brain
as the organ of consciousness,
I began to think about
the prospect of DMT
changing brain
chemistry and then
the capacity of consciousness
to experience other levels
of reality than what occur.
It was almost like the notion
of a television receiver.
You can change channels.
And some of the channels
are everyday reality,
and other channels seem to be
specific to the DMT experience.
When you have a
geomagnetic storm,
you can get
microstructural changes
within the brain tissue itself.
Now if you change structure,
you change function.
Which means the entire species.
In fact, every living thing on
this planet could be altered.
The other important
thing to remember
is that how much of
a change in the gene
is required to alter the
structure of the human brain?
You realize a single-point
mutation-- that's
one small position of that
DNA, of that three billion base
pairs that make up our
genome-- one small change,
and you lose your
ability for language.
Now let's turn it around.
Just suppose that famous
event, whatever it was, when
all cultures began
to use language
more or less at
the same time, was
because of a point mutation that
spread throughout our species.
What would have done it?
It had to be something that
would have united all of us,
something to which every
human being was exposed.
And this Earth's magnetic field.
You look historically,
you'll find
that these massive
global changes and
what we call
revitalization movements
or revival movements or feelings
where there's massive movements
of an idea often occur during
periods of certain kinds
of geomagnetic activity.
Remember for the human
brain, it's not the amount,
it's the quality.
It's the pattern.
Sooner or later we will have
a geomagnetic storm that
has that appropriate
pattern that will influence
large portions of individuals.
Who will see all
kinds of things,
perceive all kinds of phenomenon
that are remarkably similar.
Modern science tends to feel
somewhat uncomfortable when
you make the assumption
that all of us
belong to the same species.
And we're all exposed
to the same environment.
And that global changes
could influence us
all simultaneously.
And influence the
direction of history.
That takes away the
sense of human control
over their destiny.
It's an anxiogenic idea,
anxiety-producing idea
to many people.
But I think the data indicate
that's probably correct.
NARRATOR: So it's
conceivable then
that an increase in
our consciousness,
sparked by this kind of
grand celestial event,
could provide us with
a direct cognition
of the hyper-real
state of existence.
Heraclitus acclaimed that there
are three states of being.
Man is aware of only two, the
sleeping and waking states.
The state of full consciousness,
however, still remains elusive.
RICK STRASSMAN: When you start
to think about spaces which are
most of the time
invisible, that starts
to kind of-- well,
that begins to move
into concepts of spirituality.
If you think about
spirituality in a way
as the science of
invisible things--
you know, metaphysics,
as it were--
you can overlap
between spiritual world
views and some other world
views that are coming
out of contemporary physics.
One of the reasons that I ended
up calling my book "The Spirit
Molecule" is because I began
to conceive of the DMT state
as a spiritual one.
And that DMT is a
mediator, as it were,
between the physical
and the incorporeal.
You know, the material
in the spiritual,
INTERPRETER: We
biological lifeforms
basically have free access
to a three-dimensional space.
But it appears the layers
above that-- the hyperspaces--
can be accessed only
with phase changes
to a higher consciousness.
That's the threshold on which
humankind is now poised.
J. J. HURTAK: We as a humanity
occupy a consciousness
reality that can be changed.
And as we begin to use
positive energy and creativity,
we open up sides of the human
psyche known as the left
and right hemisphere.
One which is highly
scientific, and one which
is highly multidimensional.
We discover that we are
multidimensional beings.
INTERPRETER: Four-dimensional
space time continuum,
as Albert Einstein
basically introduced it
into modern physics,
won't do it for us.
It doesn't account for all
particle characteristics.
This is the great
transit of our mind
from a three-dimensional space
to a hyper-dimensional space.
And the other huge
passage is from one
only time-- from
past to future--
to many, multiple times.
We're putting forth
the concept that we
exist in a consciousness field.
The consciousness
of our thoughts
are not limited to our brain.
And when you start understanding
that you, realize that not only
can we affect things
going on around the globe,
but we can also receive
information that comes
from outside the local sphere.
And we've been able to play with
not only space but also time,
where you can go forward
and also reverse.
So, from linear
time to a multiple,
many dimensional times.
And this is why we are
going to the end of times.
That it's actually the beginning
of eternity, in my view.
What we're now seeing is
that today's modern physics
is possibly laying the
scientific foundation
for the spiritual
experiences that people
have been reporting for
hundreds and thousands of years.
INTERPRETER: All paranormal
phenomena, in fact,
can be explained
using this model.
Just one example
is psychokinesis.
Uri Geller can bend spoons,
everyone knows that.
So we have to say he's not quite
normal because normal is what
the majority can do and does.
But in his case, the channels
that access the brain from out
of these trans-dimensions--
the higher levels--
aren't completely leak proof.
They're not quite solid.
In this case, the will
can bypass the cortex
and reach directly
into this other space.
So, I can imagine that
there are some people--
and this is said
to be so-- who have
dissolved certain barriers.
These are the people
we call mediums.
Those who can see
into the other side.
Parapsychological
studies have shown
that when you get
a group of mediums
together they all
see the same thing.
In that scenario, those of
us without medial abilities--
I don't have them--
are the anormal ones.
The mediums are normal because
they're in the majority,
and they can see
things I can't see.
To actually
experience this level,
we have to be able
to cross over,
or transcend, the level
of our normal waking
or quotidian consciousness.
RICK STRASSMAN:
When you're speaking
about these huge, large-scale
celestial events to the extent
that they do impact
the formation of DMT,
it's interesting
to think about what
that world would look like.
If every organism which
contained the DMT synthesizing
gene were flooded with
high levels of DMT,
the implication is that
all those organisms would
be entering into the DMT state.
NARRATOR: What
would DMT look like?
What if we took a look
into a clinical study
group testing its effects?
This may provide some clues
as to what one could expect.
RICK STRASSMAN: So, as a
result of getting an injection
of a high dose of
DMT, the effects
began almost immediately,
within a couple of heartbeats.
And then there's this
buildup of internal pressure
and a sound, which also is
building up in intensity.
[INTENSIFYING RUMBLING]
[EXPLOSIVE NOISE]
[LOW BUZZING HUM]
There's a display
of moving, morphing,
buzzing kaleidoscopic patterns
which build and build.
[BUZZING HUM INTENSIFIES]
You start moving
consciously in space and time
because things suddenly
start coming by at a very,
very, very high velocity.
RICK STRASSMAN: Then,
within about the space
of a minute, maybe even
less, a lot of people--
the majority of people
experienced a separation
of their consciousness.
And it was almost as if this
was a requirement because
of the intensity of the pressure
that was building up in people.
[INTENSIFYING RHYTHMIC RUMBLING]
[EXPLOSION]
And I'm now whizzing
through this sucker
like if it was nothing.
It just-- I'm flying through it.
[ETHEREAL HUMMING]
So after there was that
experience of the separation
of the body and consciousness,
the consciousness
of the volunteers entered
into this intensely saturated
bright world of light.
ANDREW STONE: I remember
entering what I call the Logos.
And I knew when I
entered into this,
this is like the actual
core of where all of reality
is emanating from.
This is where
meaning comes from.
As soon as I went
into it, I lost
any sense of being different,
any sense of what I was doing,
past, any sense of future.
It was absolutely blissful.
It was often inhabited by
some kind of sentient beings.
You know, they were
humanoid or even looked
human or mechanical
or plant-like.
All manner of living
kinds of creatures.
SUSAN BLUMENTHAL:
These entities were
very clear that they knew me,
that they had knowledge of me
before I was out there.
I knew in my
intellectual awareness
that this was a very
advanced civilization.
RICK STRASSMAN:
Oftentimes, these
being expected the volunteers.
They were glad that the
volunteers had stumbled
upon that technology
to be able to interact
with them for the first time.
SUSAN BLUMENTHAL: I was free to
just be the essence of a soul.
And it was ecstasy.
And then God talked to me.
A number of the volunteers
felt as if they were returning
to some place they
had been to before
but hadn't remembered
it up until that point.
ANDREW STONE: The first
thought I had was,
this is exactly
like the last time.
RICK STRASSMAN: So there was
an exchange that occurred
between the consciousness
of the volunteer
and the perceived
entities in that state.
It would be an exchange
of information-- you know,
psychological insights,
sometimes future predictions.
There could be emotional
exchanges as well.
ANDREW STONE: You
are really just
experiencing the
meaning of life or what
life is or the gift of life.
It's given to you that this is
the most beautiful and precious
thing that there possibly is.
RICK STRASSMAN: Also, there
was a curious experience
of time stopping, as it were.
Most people were
astonished at the fact
that only 3 or 4 or even
10 minutes had passed by.
I was gone for 15 minutes.
A thousand years of
experience in 15 minutes.
If you have a dream,
when you wake up
you know that it was a dream.
When you come back
from DMT, you don't
have the feeling that what
happened to you wasn't real.
You know it was real.
You were there.
It was absolutely
as real as anything
that is in the material
existence in everyday life.
Something like the
electromagnetic field.
It is there, it is vibrating.
It's all around
us, it's invisible.
It affects us a little bit, and
also, we can affect it a lot.
The experiences
seemed more real
than real, which really
called into question
is this just purely the
brain chemistry changing?
Because if that
were the case, that
would call into
question the reality
basis of everyday reality.
Is there some kind of
reality meter or organ
in the brain which is
responsible for establishing
that sense of reality?
And then you start
to chase your tail.
You start thinking, well,
if it feels on DMT more real
than everyday reality, now
then, what is the hallucination
or what's the vision.
Is it this everyday reality
or is it what is going on
in the DMT state?
So, considering the DMT
as a spirit molecule,
it is a spirit
molecule because it
is capable of providing the
interface between the physical
and the spiritual.
[HIGH-PITCH CHIRP]
ROLLIN MCCRATY: The Global
Coherence monitoring stations
are basically extremely
sensitive magnetic field
detectors that are
specifically designed
to measure the
resonant frequencies
in the Schumann resonances.
But also the
structural field line
resonances, which are a much
lower frequency and even
lower frequency rhythms.
[HIGH-PITCH WHINING]
[VERY LOW-FREQUENCY RUMBLING]
Ancient societies, certainly
the Aztecs and Mayans
and ancient Chinese and even
modern Chinese, as far as that
goes, have really understood
and felt that humanity
was affected by the sun.
And the first that I
know of that really
proved this was a
Russian astrophysicist,
Alexander Czajkowski.
He went back to 1749 and--
very impressive, actually,
a study of human history
of major human events.
He created this data where he
each year plotted the number
of major human events.
OK?
A major event could be the
start of a war or revolution.
Something that a major
impact on a global level,
positive and negative.
And just plotted
those yearly, and then
plotted the solar cycle.
And when you look
at this data, it's
just-- you don't need to do
fancy statistics or anything.
It's obvious that human
affairs are profoundly
affected by these events.
[RUMBLING]
It's been a lot of work on
how the external environment,
especially the
geomagnetic environment,
interacts with and
affects physiology.
So, for example, we know that
our heart rate-- literal heart
rate, heart rhythms, and
so on in some degrees
are actually
synchronized to these
external magnetic rhythms.
OK?
The hormones, many
things are affected.
But of all the systems so
far that have been studied
it's the rhythm of the heart
that's most sensitive to
and reflects changes in the
Earth's geomagnetic system.
We're suggesting that
it's a two-way street.
That not only are we affected
by these planetary fields,
but that humanity-- we're all
radiating these magnetic fields
and interact with them.
All of us, collectively,
kind of create
a planetary collective
consciousness.
That's really what
each individual's
doing is the collection
of that globally that
really determines the
planetary consciousness field.
This is really hopeful
for a lot of people
because for a lot of
us, we can think, God,
it's a big world,
seven billion people.
How am I going to affect that?
But what we're
talking about here,
we all contribute equally.
It doesn't matter how
much money you make,
what your station in life
is, any of these things.
What we're radiating into
the global field environment
counts the same.
[RHYTHMIC POUNDING]
The rhythms in the
cardiovascular system
are almost an exact match
for the rhythms when we look
at the field line resonances.
So, when you have resonances--
resonant frequencies
between two different
systems, it's
basic physics that
energy and information
can easily transfer.
And then we look at the
brain wave activity,
and that's in the same region
as the Schumann resonances.
So, there again, there's
a potential for energy
and information to transfer.
Well, one of the interesting
things about the fact
that the Earth's magnetic
field is about a half a Gauss
or about 10 to
the fifth Tesla is
that energy is
stored in any area
where there's a magnetic field.
And you can calculate it.
If you take the volume of a
cell-- one of the ten trillion
cells that make up your
body-- the energy in it
is equal to the energy
associated with a wavelength
of visible light.
And now we know, actually by
measurement-- we can actually
measure this now--
that cells give
off light when
they're distressed,
when they communicate.
That's right, photons.
You can't see it
with the naked eye.
You need a photomultiplier tube.
But it seems to be a primary
means of communication.
And when you have
light being generated,
you have access to information
from the universe itself.
ROLLIN MCCRATY: It's important
to understand that the emotions
we experience, the
emotional system
is very high in the hierarchy
of what controls our physiology.
So, it's really the
emotions we experience
that drive a lot of the
activity in our nervous system,
in our hormonal
systems, and so on.
The great poets
and religions that
have been talking
about the heart
as the source of
wisdom and intuition
have been right all along.
It's really that access to
those intuitive capacities.
So, it's another-- I like to
think of as another dimension
of intelligence.
To be able to really live
more from our intuition
or our higher capacities,
more of that intelligence.
And that's really what
the-- from my perspective--
the planetary shift that we're
going through is all about.
It's an increase
in consciousness.
There's the physical
heart that acts as a pump,
and it's really much more
than a pump even physically.
But then there's also what's
called the energetic heart
or the spiritual heart.
And that's what's really
talked about in terms
of being that primary connection
to our higher capacities.
DIETER BROERS
(THROUGH INTERPRETER):
Looking back at the past, we
see that in thousands of years
no system has managed to bring
us into a, let's say, more
socially cohesive structure.
Whether we're talking
about laws or religion
or all sorts of worldviews,
nothing has ever really worked.
It's not about applying pressure
from outside telling people,
you have to do this,
just realize it already.
But it is a process
of realization.
It isn't just about suspecting
and believing and hoping.
In that sense, to perceive
what really is means to realize
that we are, in fact, all one.
We used to think
there was a division
between matter and energy.
In fact, people
used to think there
was a division between mind and
body, between spirit and mass.
Now we realize that when we
talk about spirit-- sometimes
a four-letter word to
many-- we're really
talking about really,
really small energies
that are quite quantifiable.
FRANCINE BLAKE: We actually
destroyed everything
for our children now.
Is that civilization?
Why we hanging onto it?
MICHAEL KONIG
(THROUGH INTERPRETER):
Climate change,
overpopulation, food shortages,
economic problems,
natural resources
plundered, and on and on.
Many things are
way out of balance,
and these developments
all seem exponential.
And what humans don't
typically do well with
is we don't like change,
especially unexpected change.
I don't think we can
go ahead at that speed
with the old system.
We just-- we will
burn to a frazzle.
You know, you say, well,
that's pretty negative
and it's very doomsday.
Not really.
Human beings are
remarkably resourceful.
When we're anxious, we do
a lot of positive things.
Margaret Mead
said, it only takes
a few good people
with a like vision
to change the model of
what people believe.
And I actually don't
think it takes that many,
but they have to be coherent.
We are developing
our inner senses.
They're just not outside.
Every time you have
an active solar cycle,
which we're going
into now, there
is an effect on our brainwaves.
But there may be deeper effects.
And so the anticipation
of the Mayan 2012
might be very good
because we may
be anticipating and that
way creating a new reality.
The direct relationship between
the size of the universe,
the diameter of the proton, and
man's range of vision is part
of a larger
mass-energy-space-time
transformation, which
involves changes in our basic
concepts of the known universe.
And so, this is
really the beginning
of a whole new understanding
of consciousness physics.
Some people say 2012.
It might be.
At that point,
all possibilities
will be able, good and bad.
Yes, we have to
think it's possible.
People won't try
to build something
they think is impossible.
The key point is that there
is not only one future,
there will be many futures.
As well as there is not only one
past, but there are many pasts.
The present is the moment
in which we can choose.
I choose freedom.
ROLLIN MCCRATY: The way
that I think of this
is it's an energetic
influx, and we
really have the
choice of how we're
going to process that energy.
And when we talk about 2012,
one of my main messages
is that, yeah, these cycles are
real, these external cycles.
But it's also the greatest
periods of human flourishing
during these same cycles,
not just the negative stuff.
But I also believe we are in
a special time in history now.
So, it's a great
opportunity we have
to create more collaborations,
to really access
more of our heart intuition.
It's a great time
to be more aligned
to create more
caring relationships,
find more creativity, to really
solve these problems as we're
going through the shift.
To learn how to access
more of that intuition
I was talking about, to
become self responsible
and use it in very
positive ways.
ERNST SENKOWSKI
THROUGH INTERPRETER:
The word has fallen
into disrepute,
yet the world is awash with it.
The word, of course, is love.
Love is the most
powerful force of nature.
So, why scientists
don't find love?
They use means
through which they
cannot discover this force.
Because they use
artificial instruments
that don't feel love,
and they use mathematics
that doesn't imply love.
But our minds and
essentially our bodies can.
--[INAUDIBLE] try to
love ourselves, we
really [INAUDIBLE] ourselves.
So, it's a win-win situation.
I find young and old and
in between really looking
for different vision, to
move to peace, love, and joy,
or at least towards
that direction
from war, crime, and violence.
A new way of understanding
our wonderful connection
with all of nature and
how we experience that.
Not just as a piece of
knowledge of physics saying,
well, I need to do
this to survive.
But in order to enhance
our spiritual feelings
and to find out that we
really are in tune with God's
creation and existence.
I believe that many people have
decided already whether or not
participating in the changes.
The roads will
split in humanity.
There will be some who will
hang on like [INAUDIBLE] death.
And others will say, I'm
going with the Earth.
I'm going to follow the
rhythm of the Earth.
NARRATOR: In conclusion,
only one question remains.
If we already suspect that our
world is not what we believe it
to be, that our consciousness
is more than our brain,
and that everything is
connected to everything else,
why should we wait
for a cosmic event
to bring us love and harmony?
After all, right now, today, we
all have not only the capacity
but also the responsibility
to change our world
with our thoughts and our
actions, each one of us,
in every moment.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[COMPUTER BEEPING]